spec/types/mixins.md, before:

# Mixins

## Table of Contents

* [Types](#types)
  * [Operations](#operations)
    * [Equality](#equality)
  * [Serialization](#serialization)

## Types

The value type known as a "mixin" is a procedure that takes an
`ArgumentInvocation` `args` and returns nothing. Each mixin has a string name
and a boolean that indicates whether or not it accepts a content block.

> The specific details of executing this procedure differ depending on where and
> how the mixin is defined. A mixin will typically add nodes to the CSS
> stylesheet.

### Operations

A mixin follows the default behavior of all SassScript operations, except that
equality is defined as below.

#### Equality

Mixins use reference equality: two mixin values are equal only if they refer to
the exact same instance of the same procedure.

> If the same file were to be imported multiple times, Sass would create a new
> mixin value for each `@mixin` rule each time the file is imported. Because a
> new mixin value has been created, although the name, body, and source span of
> a given mixin from the file would be the same between imports, the values
> would not be equal because they refer to different instances. Mixins
> pre-defined by the Sass language are instatiated at most once during the
> entire evaluation of a program.
>
> As an example, if we declare two mixins:
>
> ```scss
> @mixin foo {
>   color: red;
> }
>
> $a: meta.get-mixin(foo);
>
> @mixin foo {
>   color: red;
> }
>
> $b: meta.get-mixin(foo);
> ```
>
> Although every aspect of the two mixins is the same, `$a != $b`, because they
> refer to separate mixin values.

### Serialization

To serialize a mixin value:

* If the value is not being inspected, throw an error.

* Otherwise, emit `'get-mixin("'`, then the mixin's name, then `'")'`.

Commit message:

Specify syntax for argument and parameter lists
Also change the terminology from "argument declarations" and "argument
invocations" to the more standard "parameters" and "arguments",
respectively. This sets the stage for sass/sass#3994.

spec/types/mixins.md, after:

# Mixins

## Table of Contents

* [Types](#types)
  * [Operations](#operations)
    * [Equality](#equality)
  * [Serialization](#serialization)

## Types

The value type known as a "mixin" is a procedure that takes an [`ArgumentList`]
`args` and returns nothing. Each mixin has a string name and a boolean that
indicates whether or not it accepts a content block.

[`ArgumentList`]: ../syntax.md#argumentlist

> The specific details of executing this procedure differ depending on where and
> how the mixin is defined. A mixin will typically add nodes to the CSS
> stylesheet.

### Operations

A mixin follows the default behavior of all SassScript operations, except that
equality is defined as below.

#### Equality

Mixins use reference equality: two mixin values are equal only if they refer to
the exact same instance of the same procedure.

> If the same file were to be imported multiple times, Sass would create a new
> mixin value for each `@mixin` rule each time the file is imported. Because a
> new mixin value has been created, although the name, body, and source span of
> a given mixin from the file would be the same between imports, the values
> would not be equal because they refer to different instances. Mixins
> pre-defined by the Sass language are instatiated at most once during the
> entire evaluation of a program.
>
> As an example, if we declare two mixins:
>
> ```scss
> @mixin foo {
>   color: red;
> }
>
> $a: meta.get-mixin(foo);
>
> @mixin foo {
>   color: red;
> }
>
> $b: meta.get-mixin(foo);
> ```
>
> Although every aspect of the two mixins is the same, `$a != $b`, because they
> refer to separate mixin values.

### Serialization

To serialize a mixin value:

* If the value is not being inspected, throw an error.

* Otherwise, emit `'get-mixin("'`, then the mixin's name, then `'")'`.
