# Source Map Include Sources: Draft 1.0

*([Issue](https://github.com/sass/dart-sass/issues/2712))*

## Table of Contents

* [Background](#background)
* [Summary](#summary)
* [Semantics](#semantics)
  * [`sourceMapIncludeSources`](#sourcemapincludesources)
  * [`sourceMapUrl`](#sourcemapurl)
* [Deprecation Process](#deprecation-process)
  * [Phase 1](#phase-1)
  * [Phase 2](#phase-2)

## Background

> This section is non-normative.

Historically, Sass [has provided] a boolean `sourceMapIncludeSources` option to
embed the contents of source files into source maps generated by Sass. However,
there were a number of oddities and inconsistencies in this option:

[has provided]: ../spec/js-api/options.d.ts.md#sourcemapincludesources

* In order to provide a convenient user experience, files loaded via custom
  importer without an explict `sourceMapUrl` would always have a `data:` URL in
  the `sources` field in the source map. This exposes the source contents even
  if the `sourceMapIncludesources` option is set to `false`. On the other hand,
  the source contents are embedded twice in `sources` field as the `data:` URL
  and the `sourcesContent` field data if the option is set to `true`.

* The use of `data:` URLs instead of the canonical URLs has led to difficulties
  of identifying the name of these source files when navigating through the
  source map.

## Summary

This proposal addresses both of the issues above:

* `sourceMapIncludeSources` now accepts new values for refined control and
  consistency.

* Custom importers use their canonical URLs as `sourceMapUrl`s if they don't
  define a URL explicitly.

## Semantics

### `Options.sourceMapIncludeSources`

```ts
sourceMapIncludeSources?: 'auto' | 'never' | 'always';
```

* If the value is `'auto'` (the default), source contents are included in the
  source map's `sourcesContent` only for stylesheets without explictly defined
  `sourceMapUrl`s.

* If the value is `'never'`, no stylesheets' contents are included in the source
  map's `sourcesContent`.

* If the value is `'always'`, source contents are included in the source map's
  `sourcesContent` for all stylesheets.

### `ImporterResult.sourceMapUrl`

* If the `sourceMapUrl` is not explictly defined in `ImportResult`, the
  canonical URL is used as fallback.

## Deprecation Process

The deprecation process will be divided into two phases:

### Phase 1

> This phase adds no breaking changes.

Phase 1 continues to allow passing boolean values to `sourceMapIncludeSources`.

### `Options.sourceMapIncludeSources`

```ts
sourceMapIncludeSources?: 'auto' | 'never' | 'always' | boolean;
```

Boolean values are mapped to the specified string values as follows:

* `false` => `'never'`
* `true` => `'always'`

All other changes are implemented as specified.

### Phase 2

Phase 2 implements the full changes described above. Passing boolean value will
throw an error. It will be released as a breaking change in next Dart Sass major
version.
