spec/built-in-modules/meta.md, before:

# Meta-Programming Module

This built-in module is available from the URL `sass:meta`.

## Table of Contents

* [Functions](#functions)
  * [`accepts-content()`](#accepts-content)
  * [`calc-name()`](#calc-name)
  * [`calc-args()`](#calc-args)
  * [`call()`](#call)
  * [`content-exists()`](#content-exists)
  * [`feature-exists()`](#feature-exists)
  * [`function-exists()`](#function-exists)
  * [`get-function()`](#get-function)
  * [`get-mixin()`](#get-mixin)
  * [`global-variable-exists()`](#global-variable-exists)
  * [`inspect()`](#inspect)
  * [`keywords()`](#keywords)
  * [`mixin-exists()`](#mixin-exists)
  * [`module-functions()`](#module-functions)
  * [`module-mixins()`](#module-mixins)
  * [`module-variables()`](#module-variables)
  * [`type-of()`](#type-of)
  * [`variable-exists()`](#variable-exists)
* [Mixins](#mixins)
  * [`apply()`](#apply)
  * [`load-css()`](#load-css)

## Functions

### `accepts-content()`

This is a new function in the `sass:meta` module.

```
accepts-content($mixin)
```

* If `$mixin` is not a [mixin], throw an error.

  [mixin]: ../types/mixins.md

* Return whether `$mixin` accepts a content block as a SassScript boolean.

### `calc-name()`

```
calc-name($calc)
```

* If `$calc` is not a calculation, throw an error.

* Return `$calc`'s name as a quoted string.

### `calc-args()`

```
calc-args($calc)
```

* If `$calc` is not a calculation, throw an error.

* Let `args` be an empty list.

* For each argument `arg` in `$calc`'s arguments:

  * If `arg` is a number or a calculation, add it to `args`.

  * Otherwise, [serialize] `arg` and add the result to `args` as an unquoted
    string.

  [serialize]: ../types/calculation.md#serialization

* Return `args` as an unbracketed comma-separated list.

### `call()`

```
call($function, $args...)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `call()`.

### `content-exists()`

```
content-exists()
```

This function is also available as a global function named `content-exists()`.

### `feature-exists()`

```
feature-exists($feature)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `feature-exists()`.

### `function-exists()`

```
function-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `function-exists()`.

* Emit a deprecation warning named `feature-exists`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], return false.

  [`<ident-token>`]: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-syntax-3/#ident-token-diagram

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a function] named `$name` returns null.

  [resolving a function]: ../modules.md#resolving-a-member

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  [the current source file]: ../spec.md#current-source-file

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a function named `$name`.

  [`use`'s module]: ../at-rules/use.md#a-use-rules-module

### `get-function()`

```
get-function($name, $css: false, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `get-function()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], throw an error.

* If `$module` is null:

  * If `$css` is falsey:

    * Return the result of [resolving a function] named `$name`. If this
      returns null, throw an error.

  * Otherwise, return a function object that takes arguments `($args...)`. When
    this function is called:

    * If `$args` has any keyword arguments, throw an error.

    * Return a plain CSS function string with the name `$name` and the arguments
      `$args`.

* Otherwise:

  * If `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

  * If `$css` is truthy, throw an error.

  * Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
    namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  * Return [`use`'s module]'s function named `$name`, or throw an error if no
    such function exists.

### `get-mixin()`

```
get-mixin($name, $module: null)
```

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], throw an error.

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return the result of [resolving a mixin] named `$name`. If this returns
    null, throw an error.

  [resolving a mixin]: ../modules.md#resolving-a-member

* Otherwise:

  * If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

  * Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
    equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  * Return [`use`'s module]'s mixin named `$name`, or throw an error if no such
    mixin exists.

### `global-variable-exists()`

```
global-variable-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `global-variable-exists()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not a [`PlainVariable`], return false.

  [`PlainVariable`]: ../variables.md#syntax

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a variable] named `$name`, ignoring local
    scopes, returns null.

  [resolving a variable]: ../modules.md#resolving-a-member

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in the [current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  [current source file]: ../spec.md#current-source-file

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a function named `$name`.

### `inspect()`

```
inspect($value)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `inspect()`.

### `keywords()`

```
keywords($args)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `keywords()`.

### `mixin-exists()`

```
mixin-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `mixin-exists()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], return false.

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a mixin] named `$name` returns null.

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a mixin named `$name`.

### `module-functions()`

```
module-functions($module)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `module-functions()`.

* If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

* Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
  equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return a map whose keys are the names of functions in [`use`'s module] and
  whose values are the corresponding functions.

### `module-mixins()`

This is a new function in the `sass:meta` module.

```
module-mixins($module)
```

* If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

* Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
  equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return a map whose keys are the quoted string names of mixins in
  [`use`'s module] and whose values are the corresponding mixins.

### `module-variables()`

```
module-variables($module)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `module-variables()`.

* If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

* Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
  equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return a map whose keys are the names (without `$`) of variables in [`use`'s
  module] and whose values are the corresponding values.

### `type-of()`

```
type-of($value)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `type-of()`.

* Look up `$value`'s type in the "Type" column of the table below, and return an
  unquoted string whose value is the corresponding cell in the "Result" column:

  | Type          | Result          |
  | ------------- | --------------- |
  | Argument list | `"arglist"`     |
  | Boolean       | `"bool"`        |
  | Calculation   | `"calculation"` |
  | Color         | `"color"`       |
  | Function      | `"function"`    |
  | List          | `"list"`        |
  | Map           | `"map"`         |
  | Mixin         | `"mixin"`       |
  | Null          | `"null"`        |
  | Number        | `"number"`      |
  | String        | `"string"`      |

### `variable-exists()`

```
variable-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `variable-exists()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not a [`PlainVariable`], return false.

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a variable] named `$name` returns null.

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a mixin named `$name`.

## Mixins

### `apply()`

```
apply($mixin, $args...)
```

* If `$mixin` is not a [mixin], throw an error.

* If the current `@include` rule has a `ContentBlock` and `$mixin` doesn't
  accept a block, throw an error.

* Execute `$mixin` with the `ArgumentInvocation` `(...$args)`. Treat the
  `@include` rule that invoked `apply` as the `@include` rule that invoked
  `$mixin`.

  > This ensures that any `@content` rules in `$mixin` will use `apply()`'s
  > `ContentBlock`.

### `load-css()`

```
load-css($url, $with: null)
```

* If `$url` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Let `config` be a configuration whose variable names and values are given by
  `$with` if `$with` isn't null, or the empty configuration otherwise.

* Let `module` be the result of [loading] `$url` with `config`.

  [loading]: ../modules.md#loading-a-module

* Let `css` be the result of [resolving `module`'s extensions].

  [resolving `module`'s extensions]: ../at-rules/extend.md#resolving-a-modules-extensions

  > This means that, if a module loaded by `load-css()` shares some dependencies
  > with the entrypoint module, those dependencies' CSS will be included twice.

* Treat `css` as though it were the contents of the mixin.

Commit message:

Specify syntax for argument and parameter lists
Also change the terminology from "argument declarations" and "argument
invocations" to the more standard "parameters" and "arguments",
respectively. This sets the stage for sass/sass#3994.

spec/built-in-modules/meta.md, after:

# Meta-Programming Module

This built-in module is available from the URL `sass:meta`.

## Table of Contents

* [Functions](#functions)
  * [`accepts-content()`](#accepts-content)
  * [`calc-name()`](#calc-name)
  * [`calc-args()`](#calc-args)
  * [`call()`](#call)
  * [`content-exists()`](#content-exists)
  * [`feature-exists()`](#feature-exists)
  * [`function-exists()`](#function-exists)
  * [`get-function()`](#get-function)
  * [`get-mixin()`](#get-mixin)
  * [`global-variable-exists()`](#global-variable-exists)
  * [`inspect()`](#inspect)
  * [`keywords()`](#keywords)
  * [`mixin-exists()`](#mixin-exists)
  * [`module-functions()`](#module-functions)
  * [`module-mixins()`](#module-mixins)
  * [`module-variables()`](#module-variables)
  * [`type-of()`](#type-of)
  * [`variable-exists()`](#variable-exists)
* [Mixins](#mixins)
  * [`apply()`](#apply)
  * [`load-css()`](#load-css)

## Functions

### `accepts-content()`

This is a new function in the `sass:meta` module.

```
accepts-content($mixin)
```

* If `$mixin` is not a [mixin], throw an error.

  [mixin]: ../types/mixins.md

* Return whether `$mixin` accepts a content block as a SassScript boolean.

### `calc-name()`

```
calc-name($calc)
```

* If `$calc` is not a calculation, throw an error.

* Return `$calc`'s name as a quoted string.

### `calc-args()`

```
calc-args($calc)
```

* If `$calc` is not a calculation, throw an error.

* Let `args` be an empty list.

* For each argument `arg` in `$calc`'s arguments:

  * If `arg` is a number or a calculation, add it to `args`.

  * Otherwise, [serialize] `arg` and add the result to `args` as an unquoted
    string.

  [serialize]: ../types/calculation.md#serialization

* Return `args` as an unbracketed comma-separated list.

### `call()`

```
call($function, $args...)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `call()`.

### `content-exists()`

```
content-exists()
```

This function is also available as a global function named `content-exists()`.

### `feature-exists()`

```
feature-exists($feature)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `feature-exists()`.

### `function-exists()`

```
function-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `function-exists()`.

* Emit a deprecation warning named `feature-exists`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], return false.

  [`<ident-token>`]: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-syntax-3/#ident-token-diagram

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a function] named `$name` returns null.

  [resolving a function]: ../modules.md#resolving-a-member

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  [the current source file]: ../spec.md#current-source-file

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a function named `$name`.

  [`use`'s module]: ../at-rules/use.md#a-use-rules-module

### `get-function()`

```
get-function($name, $css: false, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `get-function()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], throw an error.

* If `$module` is null:

  * If `$css` is falsey:

    * Return the result of [resolving a function] named `$name`. If this
      returns null, throw an error.

  * Otherwise, return a function object that takes arguments `($args...)`. When
    this function is called:

    * If `$args` has any keyword arguments, throw an error.

    * Return a plain CSS function string with the name `$name` and the arguments
      `$args`.

* Otherwise:

  * If `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

  * If `$css` is truthy, throw an error.

  * Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
    namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  * Return [`use`'s module]'s function named `$name`, or throw an error if no
    such function exists.

### `get-mixin()`

```
get-mixin($name, $module: null)
```

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], throw an error.

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return the result of [resolving a mixin] named `$name`. If this returns
    null, throw an error.

  [resolving a mixin]: ../modules.md#resolving-a-member

* Otherwise:

  * If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

  * Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
    equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  * Return [`use`'s module]'s mixin named `$name`, or throw an error if no such
    mixin exists.

### `global-variable-exists()`

```
global-variable-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `global-variable-exists()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not a [`PlainVariable`], return false.

  [`PlainVariable`]: ../variables.md#syntax

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a variable] named `$name`, ignoring local
    scopes, returns null.

  [resolving a variable]: ../modules.md#resolving-a-member

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in the [current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

  [current source file]: ../spec.md#current-source-file

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a function named `$name`.

### `inspect()`

```
inspect($value)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `inspect()`.

### `keywords()`

```
keywords($args)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `keywords()`.

### `mixin-exists()`

```
mixin-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `mixin-exists()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not an [`<ident-token>`], return false.

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a mixin] named `$name` returns null.

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a mixin named `$name`.

### `module-functions()`

```
module-functions($module)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `module-functions()`.

* If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

* Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
  equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return a map whose keys are the names of functions in [`use`'s module] and
  whose values are the corresponding functions.

### `module-mixins()`

This is a new function in the `sass:meta` module.

```
module-mixins($module)
```

* If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

* Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
  equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return a map whose keys are the quoted string names of mixins in
  [`use`'s module] and whose values are the corresponding mixins.

### `module-variables()`

```
module-variables($module)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `module-variables()`.

* If `$module` is not a string, throw an error.

* Let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose namespace is
  equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return a map whose keys are the names (without `$`) of variables in [`use`'s
  module] and whose values are the corresponding values.

### `type-of()`

```
type-of($value)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `type-of()`.

* Look up `$value`'s type in the "Type" column of the table below, and return an
  unquoted string whose value is the corresponding cell in the "Result" column:

  | Type          | Result          |
  | ------------- | --------------- |
  | Argument list | `"arglist"`     |
  | Boolean       | `"bool"`        |
  | Calculation   | `"calculation"` |
  | Color         | `"color"`       |
  | Function      | `"function"`    |
  | List          | `"list"`        |
  | Map           | `"map"`         |
  | Mixin         | `"mixin"`       |
  | Null          | `"null"`        |
  | Number        | `"number"`      |
  | String        | `"string"`      |

### `variable-exists()`

```
variable-exists($name, $module: null)
```

This function is also available as a global function named `variable-exists()`.

* If `$name` is not a string, throw an error.

* If `$name` is not a [`PlainVariable`], return false.

* If `$module` is null:

  * Return whether [resolving a variable] named `$name` returns null.

* Otherwise, if `$module` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Otherwise, let `use` be the `@use` rule in [the current source file] whose
  namespace is equal to `$module`. If no such rule exists, throw an error.

* Return whether [`use`'s module] contains a mixin named `$name`.

## Mixins

### `apply()`

```
apply($mixin, $args...)
```

* If `$mixin` is not a [mixin], throw an error.

* If the current `@include` rule has a `ContentBlock` and `$mixin` doesn't
  accept a block, throw an error.

* Execute `$mixin` with the [`ArgumentList`] `(...$args)`. Treat the
  `@include` rule that invoked `apply` as the `@include` rule that invoked
  `$mixin`.

  > This ensures that any `@content` rules in `$mixin` will use `apply()`'s
  > `ContentBlock`.

[`ArgumentList`]: ../syntax.md#argumentlist

### `load-css()`

```
load-css($url, $with: null)
```

* If `$url` isn't a string, throw an error.

* Let `config` be a configuration whose variable names and values are given by
  `$with` if `$with` isn't null, or the empty configuration otherwise.

* Let `module` be the result of [loading] `$url` with `config`.

  [loading]: ../modules.md#loading-a-module

* Let `css` be the result of [resolving `module`'s extensions].

  [resolving `module`'s extensions]: ../at-rules/extend.md#resolving-a-modules-extensions

  > This means that, if a module loaded by `load-css()` shares some dependencies
  > with the entrypoint module, those dependencies' CSS will be included twice.

* Treat `css` as though it were the contents of the mixin.
